Project:
Dockerize a React Application with Multi-Stage Build

Objectives:
- To understand and implement containerization using Docker for a React application.
- To create a multi-stage Dockerfile that separates the build phase from the production phase for improved efficiency.
- To reduce image size by excluding unnecessary dependencies from the production image.

What We Did:

Theoretical Steps:
1. Started by creating a basic React application using Create React App.
   Command used:
   npx create-react-app experiment-25

2. Understood how React builds its static files inside the "build" directory when we run:
   npm run build
   This command generates optimized files ready for deployment.

3. Learned about the concept of multi-stage builds in Docker.
   - In the first stage, we use Node.js to install dependencies and build the React app.
   - In the second stage, we use Nginx to serve the already-built static files efficiently.

4. Created a .dockerignore file to avoid sending unnecessary files like node_modules, .git, and temporary build folders to the Docker context.
   This helps reduce build time and image size.

5. Wrote a Dockerfile with two stages:
   - Stage 1 (Builder Stage): Uses a Node.js image to install dependencies and build the app.
   - Stage 2 (Production Stage): Uses an Nginx image to copy the build output and serve it.

6. Built the Docker image using:
   docker build -t react-app-nginx .

7. Verified that the build process completed successfully and produced a lightweight, production-ready image.

8. Ran the container using:
   docker run -d -p 8080:80 react-app-nginx
   This command maps the container’s port 80 (default Nginx port) to port 8080 on the host system.

9. Verified that the React app was successfully served at:
   http://localhost:8080

10. Checked running containers with:
    docker ps

11. Stopped the container after testing using:
    docker stop <container_id>

Practical Implementation:
- First, created the optimized production build for React using:
  npm run build

- Then we wrote the following multi-stage Dockerfile:

  ----------------------------------------------------
  # Stage 1: Build
  FROM node:18 AS build
  WORKDIR /app
  COPY package*.json ./
  RUN npm install
  COPY . .
  RUN npm run build

  # Stage 2: Serve
  FROM nginx:alpine
  COPY --from=build /app/build /usr/share/nginx/html
  EXPOSE 80
  CMD ["nginx", "-g", "daemon off;"]
  ----------------------------------------------------

- The first stage installs all dependencies and compiles the React app into static HTML, CSS, and JS files.
- The second stage takes only the compiled files from the first stage and serves them through Nginx.
- This process ensures that the final image does not contain any unnecessary development dependencies or source files.

- Verified image size using:
  docker images
  The size was significantly smaller than a single-stage build containing Node.js dependencies.

- Finally, tested the running container in the browser. The app displayed the React default page, confirming that it was served successfully via Docker and Nginx.

Learning Outcomes:
1. Gained a clear understanding of how multi-stage builds in Docker optimize both image size and security.
2. Learned to containerize a React application and deploy it with Nginx as a production server.
3. Understood how to separate build-time dependencies (Node.js) from runtime dependencies (Nginx).
4. Learned to use essential Docker commands for building, running, checking, and stopping containers.
5. Understood how to use the .dockerignore file to exclude unnecessary files during Docker image creation.
6. Developed practical skills for creating lightweight and production-ready Docker images suitable for deployment on any system.

Conclusion:
Through this experiment, we successfully dockerized a React application using a multi-stage build approach. 
The final image was smaller, faster to deploy, and more secure. We also verified that the application ran perfectly 
on localhost through Nginx, confirming the efficiency of this Dockerization process.
